README.md, before:

# eventcore

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/maikelboogerd/eventcore.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/maikelboogerd/eventcore)

Produce and consume events with any queue.

## Installation

This project is hosted on PyPI and can be installed with pip:

```
$ pip install eventcore
```

This only includes a (local) dummy queue, which can be used for testing or development environments. In the usage section some examples are shown on how to use this library with Kafka or SQS, which are more suited for production systems.

### Install Kafka

This step is **not required** unless you want to use the `eventcore_kafka` library.

```
$ pip install eventcore-kafka
```

> This install includes the library `confluent-kafka`

### Install SQS

This step is **not required** unless you want to use the `eventcore.sqs` package.

```
$ pip install eventcore[sqs]
```

> This install includes the library `boto3==1.9.*`

## Usage

### Configure a Producer

Before you can dispatch events you need to register a default producer, this could be changed depending on the type of queue you want to use. The producer implements a persistence mechanism that is used whenever `dispatch()` gets called.

```python
from eventcore.dummy import DummyProducer

producer = DummyProducer()
producer.register()
```

> The producer from this example stores your events in memory and is reset when the current process ends.

### Configure a Consumer

In order to retrieve events you'll need to create and run a consumer instance. The consumer will stay active in a separate thread to keep listening for new events by calling `thread()` on it.

```python
from eventcore.dummy import DummyConsumer

consumer = DummyConsumer()
consumer.thread()
```

### Events

Create your own events using `Event` as base class. These custom events must set the properties topic and name as is shown in the example.

```python
from eventcore import Event

class UserCreated(Event):
    topic = 'User'
    name = 'UserCreated'
```

### Dispatching

Events can be instantiated and dispatched on the fly. Doing so requires you to pass the subject and data arguments. Call `dispatch()` on the event to have your default producer store it.

```python
event = UserCreated(subject='cfce9306-3b33-4cb2-a51f-9dc4879cc7a2'
                    data={'name': 'John Doe'})
event.dispatch()
```

Alternatively, you can dispatch events whenever a method is called by using the `dispatch_event` decorator. This uses the return value of the decorated method to build the event instance. When the return value is a non-dictionary object, it uses it's `__dict__` property to populate event data.

```python
from eventcore import dispatch_event

@dispatch_event(UserCreated, subject='id')
def create_user():
    user = User(name='John Doe')
    return user
```

### Subscribers

Whenever your consumer retrieves new events it will execute all subscriber methods registered for it, passing the event instance as the only argument.

```python
from eventcore import event_subscriber

@event_subscriber(UserCreated)
def send_activation(event):
    pass
```

## Utility

### Context managers

Add a context manager that wraps around the execution of each `event_subscriber`. This could be used to manage database transactions.

```python
import transaction

consumer = DummyConsumer()
consumer.set_context_manager(transaction.manager)
consumer.thread()
```

### Multiple producers

You can bypass the default producer by passing a alternative one to the `dispatch()` method. This could allow you to use e.g. Kafa as a default, while still sending some specific events to SQS.

```
from eventcore.dummy import DummyProducer

alternative_producer = DummyProducer()
event.dispatch(alternative_producer)
```

## Features

### Kafka

See the [Install - Kafka](#install-kafka) section of this document to install the requirements before you can use this feature. The below examples show the different configuration needed for your producer and consumer.

```python
from eventcore_kafka import KafkaProducer

producer = KafkaProducer(servers='localhost:9092')
producer.register()
```

```python
from eventcore_kafka import KafkaConsumer

consumer = KafkaConsumer(servers='localhost:9092',
                         group_id='user_service',
                         topics='user')
consumer.thread()
```

### SQS

See the [Install - SQS](#install-sqs) section of this document to install the requirements before you can use this feature. The below examples show the different configuration needed for your producer and consumer.

```python
from eventcore.sqs import SQSProducer

producer = SQSProducer(region_name='eu-west-1',
                       access_key_id='ACCESS_KEY_ID',
                       secret_access_key='SECRET_ACCESS_KEY',
                       queue_url='https://.../example.fifo')
producer.register()
```

```python
from eventcore.sqs import SQSConsumer

consumer = SQSConsumer(region_name='eu-west-1',
                       access_key_id='ACCESS_KEY_ID',
                       secret_access_key='SECRET_ACCESS_KEY',
                       queue_url='https://.../example.fifo')
consumer.thread()
```

Commit message:

Move feature installation to the bottom

README.md, after:

# eventcore

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/maikelboogerd/eventcore.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/maikelboogerd/eventcore)

Produce and consume events with any queue.

## Installation

This project is hosted on PyPI and can be installed with pip:

```
$ pip install eventcore
```

This only includes a `DummyProducer` and `DummyConsumer`, which can be used for testing or development environments.

**For production environments you should use either [Kafka](#feature-kafka) or [SQS](#feature-sqs) included in this library.**

## Usage

### Configure a Producer

Before you can dispatch events you need to register a default producer, this could be changed depending on the type of queue you want to use. The producer implements a persistence mechanism that is used whenever `dispatch()` gets called.

```python
from eventcore.dummy import DummyProducer

producer = DummyProducer()
producer.register()
```

> The producer from this example stores your events in memory and is reset when the current process ends.

### Configure a Consumer

In order to retrieve events you'll need to create and run a consumer instance. The consumer will stay active in a separate thread to keep listening for new events by calling `thread()` on it.

```python
from eventcore.dummy import DummyConsumer

consumer = DummyConsumer()
consumer.thread()
```

### Events

Create your own events using `Event` as base class. These custom events must set the properties topic and name as is shown in the example.

```python
from eventcore import Event

class UserCreated(Event):
    topic = 'User'
    name = 'UserCreated'
```

### Dispatching

Events can be instantiated and dispatched on the fly. Doing so requires you to pass the subject and data arguments. Call `dispatch()` on the event to have your default producer store it.

```python
event = UserCreated(subject='cfce9306-3b33-4cb2-a51f-9dc4879cc7a2'
                    data={'name': 'John Doe'})
event.dispatch()
```

Alternatively, you can dispatch events whenever a method is called by using the `dispatch_event` decorator. This uses the return value of the decorated method to build the event instance. When the return value is a non-dictionary object, it uses it's `__dict__` property to populate event data.

```python
from eventcore import dispatch_event

@dispatch_event(UserCreated, subject='id')
def create_user():
    user = User(name='John Doe')
    return user
```

### Subscribers

Whenever your consumer retrieves new events it will execute all subscriber methods registered for it, passing the event instance as the only argument.

```python
from eventcore import event_subscriber

@event_subscriber(UserCreated)
def send_activation(event):
    pass
```

## Utility

### Context managers

Add a context manager that wraps around the execution of each `event_subscriber`. This could be used to manage database transactions.

```python
import transaction

consumer = DummyConsumer()
consumer.set_context_manager(transaction.manager)
consumer.thread()
```

### Multiple producers

You can bypass the default producer by passing a alternative one to the `dispatch()` method. This could allow you to use e.g. Kafa as a default, while still sending some specific events to SQS.

```
from eventcore.dummy import DummyProducer

alternative_producer = DummyProducer()
event.dispatch(alternative_producer)
```

## Feature - Kafka

Installation is **only required** if you want to use the `eventcore_kafka` package.

> This install includes the library `confluent-kafka`

```
$ pip install eventcore-kafka
```

The below examples show the different configuration needed for the producer and consumer when using Kafka.

```python
from eventcore_kafka import KafkaProducer

producer = KafkaProducer(servers='localhost:9092')
producer.register()
```

```python
from eventcore_kafka import KafkaConsumer

consumer = KafkaConsumer(servers='localhost:9092',
                         group_id='user_service',
                         topics='user')
consumer.thread()
```

## Feature - SQS

Installation is **only required** if you want to use the `eventcore.sqs` package.

> This install includes the library `boto3==1.9.*`

```
$ pip install eventcore[sqs]
```

The below examples show the different configuration needed for your producer and consumer when using SQS.

```python
from eventcore.sqs import SQSProducer

producer = SQSProducer(region_name='eu-west-1',
                       access_key_id='ACCESS_KEY_ID',
                       secret_access_key='SECRET_ACCESS_KEY',
                       queue_url='https://.../example.fifo')
producer.register()
```

```python
from eventcore.sqs import SQSConsumer

consumer = SQSConsumer(region_name='eu-west-1',
                       access_key_id='ACCESS_KEY_ID',
                       secret_access_key='SECRET_ACCESS_KEY',
                       queue_url='https://.../example.fifo')
consumer.thread()
```
